---
title: "iOS Codesigning and Jailbreak"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Research
  - Jailbreak
---

# iOS Codesigning and Jailbreak
iOS has multiple security measures in it's system to prevent any binary to run in iOS and even control the permissions the binary has in the system.
## Different Measures to bypass in an iOS jailbreak:
<p>In an iOS jailbreak because our goal is to be able to install and run whatever we want on our iOS device, we have to bypass certain measures. iOS works in such a way where hashes and entitlements are pretty important. What's a hash you might say ? Great question, the goal of a hash is to check if a file has been modified, you run a hash function in a file and you should get a string of characters that changes at each modification (example of hash functions: SHA-1, SHA-256, MD5...etc). In a binary there is also it's entitlements in iOS each binary must have entitlements which is pretty self explanatory entitlements are what a binary is allowed to do in the system. Here are the 2 "main" security measures you have to bypass in modern iOS (I'll first present briefly each measure and their respective bypasses):
</p>

## amfid:
### What is it ?
amfid is a system daemon on iOS that runs each time that a binary is run on the system. It checks for each entitlements that the binary has and it checks if the hash of the binary is validated by Apple. 
### How do we bypass it ?
To bypass amfid in modern iOS you have to find a specific function in memory that amfid uses to verify file hashes, called: MISValidateSignatureAndCopyInfo. We then setup an exception handler, because we are gonna make amfid crash by overwriting that function. When you crash that function we can "catch" that error with our exception handler and tell amfid that the hash for the file is good to go. So to bypass amfid you need to setup a daemon that will run the exception handler for you and tell amfid every file is good to go. To sum up here's a little explanatory diagram:
User runs binary -> amfid get's called -> amfid *crashes* when it want's to check the binary with the MISValidateSignatureAndCopyInfo function that we've overwritten in memory -> our exception handler controls that crash and tell amfid everything is fine and he can continue.
I feel like this GIF describes this situation well:

<iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/l2JIlnyZUpduiAn6M" width="480" height="474" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe>

## CoreTrust:
## What is it? 
CoreTrust is much much harder. As it is implemented directly in the kernel you can't do the amfid technique with it. In the iOS filesystem there is a structure inside a binary (mach-o) that is a vnode it contains information about the binary. In there, there is also the cs_blob as you can see it's a code-signing blob, that's all the hashes and different code signing information about the binary. When you run a binary on iOS, here's the basic flow:
User runs binary -> CoreTrust checks it's cs_blob and if it has an Apple signature and it respects Apples rules -> amfid -> the binary actually runs. 
There are different ways of bypassing CoreTrust since it's implementation in iOS 12 we haven't really seen a real world example of one yet that is used in modern jailbreaks.
### The different ways of bypassing CoreTrust:
- Attaching another binary's cs_blob (that is sure to be valid) to this one then after the CoreTrust checks generate our own cs_blob.
Pros: efficient and has already been done at least the blob generating part <a href="https://github.com/PsychoTea/MeridianJB/blob/master/Meridian/amfid/ent_patching.m#L173">here</a>.<br>
-- Pros: efficient <br>
-- Cons: it's getting harder and harder to get that done because iOS is more and more secure.<br>
(If interested <a href="https://research.dynastic.co/2019/03/01/codesign-bypass">here's</a> a pretty tchenical paper made by the Dynastic Team about that technique)
- Using a 0day exploit <br>
 -- Pros: The MOST 🤩 efficient way<br> 
 -- Cons: Finding a 0day isn't easy it's like really hard and you really have to know your stuff<br>
- Signing on-device at runtime the binary, let me explain, you basically find a way to hook a function (run a function each time that that function is called) that is in launchd (this daemon launches everything in iOS) called posix_spawn (this function is used to launch a binary in C) but before you call that function back you sign the binary you want to run using a tool called ldid that is used to sign and give entitlements to the binary. A little diagram to explain should help (i know my explanation skills aren't amazing...):
<br>
User runs binary -> launchd is gonna launch is with posix_spawn() -> we hooked that function so we run ldid just before posix_spawn -> Finally call posix_spawn() to launch our binary.<br>
-- Pros: implementation shouldn't be very hard 😂<br>
-- Cons: extremely inefficient way <br>

So that's what I think are the most important points in iOS code signing it's not very easy to understand took me a while to catch up. There is one thing i haven't mentionned is the TrustCache (i won't go to much into detail), the Trustcache is a list of hashes of pre-approved binaries by Apple (like amfid launchd...etc) that skip CoreTrust and amfid. Before back in iOS 11-12 days you could modify it and add your own hashes to the TC.<br>
I hope I mentioned everything tell me if I forgot something. Don't mind the spelling mistakes or some incoherence in some phrases I mainly write as my brain goes (i know it's not the best practice).
