---
title: "Hey 👋"
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - Introduction
---

## My First BlogPost

Hello 👋, welcome to my blog ! This is a purely informative blog where I will also be recording different roadblocks and advancements in my present/past/future projects, ideas and also maybe discussing about my opinion on different subjects.
<br>
## Who am I and what's my story ?
<p>I'm currently a High-School student in France 🇫🇷. I've had a passion for computer programming/computer science since I was 8yrs old. I started with the complete basics as many programmers would start from Scratch 🤩. Then after a year of understanding the basics of programming languages (if loops, variables, functions). I moved on to the next programming language that everyone starts with Python 🐍 and that was at the time where I received my very own first computer (with the processing power of a hamster 🐹) not a Macintosh 512K or a Commodore 64 but the infamous Raspberry pi 3 model B with it's 1 full Gb of RAM and it's 4 cores clocked at 1.2GHz. I was then introduced into the wonders of robotics with arduino, I made all sorts of little projects for example my very own weather station ! (FYI it was just an temperature sensor plugged in an arduino board plugged into a raspberry pi reading it's data and showing that result on a blank webpage using Flask). After a year of using the raspberry pi, I saved up to get myself my very first <strong>real</strong> computer a MacBook Air 2017 base model (Core i5 Dual Core, 8Gb of RAM, 128Gb of SSD). I was at the time really intrigued and excited to learn iOS app development but had very very little knowledge of the subject but a lot of ambitions. I did small projects in Swift, encrypted chat app (Firebase + RNCryptor), using models with MLModels...etc. That was 2019, when the world was up and running, but then 2020 arrived... In march of 2020 the French government decided to confine the whole country and put us in a state-wide lockdown. My school as most did had to switch online. On my free time (which i had a lot of) I continued working on my little projects, at the time I had a big interest for Machine Learning ✨ (the new buzz word that everyone uses today) so during the lockdown I found some tutorials on how to make simple classifiers. During that lockdown I also discovered the wonders of iOS Jailbreaking  ! I jailbroke my iPhone XR under iOS 13.5 using unc0ver by Pwn20wnd, but didn't keep the jailbreak by fear of breaking my phone (I was extremely naive at the time).  During the lockdown (march->june 2020) and summer 2020, I decided to checkout the C programming language which I always saw as a difficult language (to read/write). For me the best way to learn a new programming language isn't by watching tons of tutorials or reading the language's documentation 😂 but by having an idea of a project and making it a reality. So that's what I did, I created <a href="https://github.com/K0stad1n/bash-learner">bash-learner</a> a tool that's suppose to teach you the basic principles of the CLI (Command Line Interface) although you had to install it through the CLI 😂. It taught me a lot:<br></p>
-First, it taught me all about the C programming language which I just loved !<br>
-Second it taught me the basics of using Git/Github.<br>
-Third it taught me about the basics of CI/CD using Github Actions I tested to build simple workflows.
<br>
<br>
<p>It's also during that time where I learned about GNU/Linux, open source and privacy in the tech industry with Edward Snowden (I recommend his book: <i>Permanent record</i>). I decided to install my first distro on my Mac which was KDE Neon a derivative of Ubuntu made by the developers of KDE.</p>
<p>
The summer coming to an end, school life and city life starting up again. I continued slowly working on
<a href="https://github.com/K0stad1n/bash-learner">bash-learner</a> but not very seriously I greatly discourage using it as a educating tool 😂. I then got interested in Virtual Reality and took a course on Unity VR Game develoment which I never really lashed onto. (I have to say I see myself more as a maker than a gamer.)</p>
<p>
I went onto try and make a VR web-interface with three.js to use the camera on your phone to track and place your hands in the virtual world but I then realized that if on my MacBook it would run with low fps it would probably be the same case on an iPhone even if it had better specs than my laptop (at the time).</p>
<p>After that project not really working out. I decided to extend my knowledge in GNU/Linux and followed the LinuxFromScratch guide(<i>LFS</i>). ⚠️ Reminder: I was on still on a 2017 Macbook Air which had many proprietary drivers (network-card, webcam...etc 🙄 I can't even describe the problems I had adapting them to LinuxFromScratch). Although, LinuxFromScratch is a great way to learn about the internals of GNU/Linux.</p>
<p>We quickly reached 2021, the year where I learned the <strong>most</strong>, in January 2021, I quickly lost interest in what I was doing in programming and then on the 10t of February 2021, this tweet came out: <blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr"><a href="https://t.co/qSfvzFhz6u">https://t.co/qSfvzFhz6u</a><br>cicuta_virosa - iOS 14.3 kernel LPE for ALL devices.<a href="https://twitter.com/FCE365?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@FCE365</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/RazMashat?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@RazMashat</a> <a href="https://twitter.com/CStar_OW?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@CStar_OW</a> please share it across jailbreak community.<br><br>We are Anonymous. We are Legion.</p>&mdash; ModernPwner (@ModernPwner) <a href="https://twitter.com/ModernPwner/status/1359487650663698432?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 10, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script> <br> As you can see this tweet is an announcement for an iOS exploit (a Local Privilege Escalation to be more precise) for one of the latest iOS releases at the time I think. While I was scrolling my usual twitter feed, I fell on that, as a curious teen I decided why not test it on my own phone. It might be cool to see what it does. That's what I did, knowing nothing about basic Operating System principles or anything about modern iOS. I tested it and it worked (duh😂). I wanted to learn more that's when I got totally into the iOS jailbreaking community. </p>
<p>I'll probably write a whole post on what I learned on iOS jailbreaking later and I won't go into much detail here. I'll just explain the basic principle of an iOS: Use an exploit in the iOS operating system to install a third-party app store that let's you customize the behaviors/looks of your iPhone (same idea as rooting your android phone and theming it)</p>
<p>I was really intrigued by it and spent probably the next 10months (until november 2021) interested in iOS jailbreaking which is unfortunately now a bit of a dying community (personal opinion).</p>
<p>In november 2021, A friend of mine, while on a FaceTime call reached out and asked me a question about our Grade Managing App used at school called EcoleDirecte (ED) she asked: "Why can't we see my averages on their app?"<br>. This nurtured an idea, so I decided to create an app where you give your ID and password and it would calculate it for you using the apps private undocumented (🙄) API. I used that project to introduce me to SwiftUI. I made a working prototype in a few weeks. On the Christmas vacation, I decided I needed to rewrite it because the code was poorly written as I didn't know much about the language at the time. But that's where I also got intrigued and thought that if I wanted to publish that App I would also need android support. I decided to play it fair as some of my friends had Android phones I couldn't just tell them: "Oh yeah that new app I was talking to you about you can't have it because I'm a selfish Apple fanboy that want's to stay in the Ecosystem"</p>
<p>This brings us to now, I decided to create the Averages App version 2! Of course New project new programming language. This thought me the most used language on the web: PHP! (JK😂), Javascript more specifically React Native. I published my App on the App Store and right now it is going through the review process in the Google Play Store.
</p>
<p>This was an introduction to my blog which I will try to post when I can on depending on the time I have.</p>
<p>PS: Don't mind the spelling mistakes</p>
